docs: Update Contribution guide (#648)
gitpod-io/workspace-images: CONTRIBUTING.md

1. Add variants through `chunk.yaml` if more than one version is popular for the chunk.
e.g. `java-11` and `java-17`.
1. Install specific version of the tool/language.
1. Make sure the user `gitpod` can access the intalled tool/lang.
1. The last `USER` command of the image should always be `gitpod` and **NOT** `root`.
1. Always add new path as prefix to existing path.
e.g. `ENV PATH=/my-tool/path/bin:$PATH`.
Not doing so can cause path conflicts and can potentially break other images.
1. **DO NOT** update the default shell rc files like `.bashrc` unless you are making change in the base layer.
1. Always create an rc file in the `.bashrc.d` directory.
All the files are sourced from this directory for a bash session.
e.g. `RUN echo "/etc/mydb/mydb-bashrc-launch.sh" >> /home/gitpod/.bashrc.d/100-my-service-launch.sh`
1. TODO: Adding apt keys

### Writing Tests

Follow the instructions below to add tests for a chunk:

1. Create a `category-name.yaml` file under the [tests](tests) directory.
1. Write your tests with proper assertions.
You can read more on how to write tests in the [dazzle documentation](https://github.com/gitpod-io/dazzle/#testing-layers-and-merged-images)

> Here is a list of best practices you should keep in mind while adding a chunk:

Author: ```suggestion
Here is a list of best practices you should keep in mind while writing a test:
```

## Tools

This repo is already configured with a [.gitpod.yml](.gitpod.yml) which installs and sets up all the required dependency.
It also starts the services that are required to build this repo in dedicated bash shells.

Here is a list of dependencies and tools:

1. [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/overview/) - to start a local registry server
1. [buildkitd](https://github.com/moby/buildkit) - to help build the images
1. [dazzle](https://github.com/gitpod-io/dazzle/) - primary tool used to build docker images
1. [registry image](https://docs.docker.com/registry/deploying/) - a local registry server image

## Building images

## Locally

We ship a shell script [dazzle-up.sh](dazzle-up.sh) that can be used to build the images locally. Run it in a shell:

```bash
./dazzle-up.sh
```

This script will first build the chunks and run tests followed by creation of container images. It uses `dazzle` to perform these tasks.

The images will be pushed to the local registry server running on port 5000. You can pull the images using:

```bash
docker pull localhost:5000/dazzle:combo
```

> where `combo` is the name of the combination defined in [dazzle.yml](dazzle.yml) e.g. `full`.

Author: Nice catch. There is a typo.

Follow the below steps to add your chunk:

1. Create your chunk directory under [./chunks](chunks)
1. Create a `chunk.yaml` file if your chunk has more than one active versions.
You can look at the existing files in this repo for reference e.g. [lang-java](chunks/lang-java/chunk.yaml).
1. Create a docker file containing instructions on how to install the tool.
Make sure you use the default base image like other chunks.

Here is a list of best practices you should keep in mind while adding a chunk:

1. Add variants through `chunk.yaml` if more than one version is popular for the chunk.
e.g. `java-11` and `java-17`.
1. Install specific version of the tool/language.
1. Make sure the user `gitpod` can access the intalled tool/lang.
1. The last `USER` command of the image should always be `gitpod` and **NOT** `root`.
1. Always add new path as prefix to existing path.
e.g. `ENV PATH=/my-tool/path/bin:$PATH`.
Not doing so can cause path conflicts and can potentially break other images.
1. **DO NOT** update the default shell rc files like `.bashrc` unless you are making change in the base layer.

> 1. Always create an rc file in the `.bashrc.d` directory.

Reviewer: At first glance this sounded like you always need to create an rc file.
```suggestion
1. If you need to create an rc file you should put it in the `.bashrc.d` directory.
```

1. Write your tests with proper assertions.
You can read more on how to write tests in the [dazzle documentation](https://github.com/gitpod-io/dazzle/#testing-layers-and-merged-images)

Here is a list of best practices you should keep in mind while writing a test:

1. Test should check the version of the tools and languages and their dependencies that are being installed.
1. Test must assert on the exit code i.e. the `status`.
1. Test must check the existence of directories that are required for the chunk to work.

### Updating dazzle.yml

Adding a combination is easy and only requires you list the base reference and the set of chunks.
You can refer to the existing combinations to learn more.

Here is a list of best practices you should keep in mind while adding a combination:

1. Use a meaningful name of the combination, it should not conflict with existing names.
1. Add `-version` suffix to the combination name if you have variants.
e.g. `ruby-3`
1. Use `base` combination as reference rather than other combination unless there is an exception.
e.g. `full-vnc` is one of the cases which uses the `full` combination rather than the `base`.

> This is because combination as the vnc combination only adds an extra `tool-vnc` chunk and nothing else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the vnc combination only adds an extra `tool-vnc` chunk and nothing else.
```
